# augmented-edition
a companion application for reading books

*note: Augmented Edition has yet to make it out of the idea-phase, so there is no code here, just ideas and plans...

### Overview
Augmented Edition is a mobile application designed to be used while reading a book. Endnotes, footnotes, commentary, variants and textual notes (for a scholarly edition) can be accessed on the mobile device just by pointing the device's camera at the relevant page of the book, obviating the need to thumb back and forth through different sections of the book while reading.

### Rationale
The concept of augmented edition can be traced to two separate stems:
- **Internet of things / cyborgs / eversion.** In many ways the most exciting things happening in the tech space currently do not have to do with squeezing more power out of the box (or pushing more pixels) but instead are oriented toward the deeper integration of technology into users' everyday and material lives. Home automation (Alexa, Google Home, smart appliances), wearable technology (from [jackets](https://mashable.com/2017/09/25/google-levis-jacquard-jacket-review/) to [glasses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t5ixBsHPMxk) -- ([no, not just Google Glass](https://www.theverge.com/2018/2/5/16966530/intel-vaunt-smart-glasses-announced-ar-video)), and [self-driving vehicle technologies](https://arstechnica.com/cars/2017/04/cadillac-super-cruises-to-the-front-with-the-most-advanced-semi-autonomous-car-on-the-market/) are just a few examples of the ways technology is becoming increasingly embedded throughout our lives, rather than a distinct, separate part or place (like "cyberspace"). The miniaturization of computers from room-sized to pocket-sized and the proliferation of wireless communications technology have profoundly changed the way we approach many tasks. The augmented edition seeks not to replace the physical, "analog" book but rather to, as the name suggests, augment the book and assist the user with the experience of navigating the structure of the book. Just as home automation changes the way we interact with the thermostat or lights in our homes -- not replacing them, but adding features and conveniences, and maybe a touch of delight to the experience, when all goes well -- so the augmented edition seeks to change the way users -- readers -- interact with books. Augmented edition can add features (rich linking of data, graphics), conveniences (stop thumbing back and forth to notes, maps, family trees), and perhaps, if all goes well, a bit of extra delight to the already great rewards of a good book.

- **Relativity / new ontologies / rich data linking.** In his "Theorizing the Digital Scholarly Edition," Hans Walter Gabler described  critics and editors of scholarly editions as in "a constant see–saw alternation between a Newtonian and an Einsteinian understanding of the nature of texts." Though Gabler was discussing here the idea of closure in terms of the interpretation of texts, I was struck by the applicability of this phrase to Gabler's own larger point about the discourse of the various parts of scholarly editions with one another (the reading-text with the apparatus, the apparatus with the notes, etc). Gabler was marshalling this evidence in support of the idea of the digital realm as the natural home for scholarly editions. He asserted that while "we read texts in . . . books; but we study texts and works in . . . the digital medium." But surrendering one's cell phone is not a prerequisite to reading a book, nor do paper media cease to exist when one opens an ebook file. The augmented edition suggests that by combining the strengths of the paper book (linearity, tactility, familiarity) with the strengths of mobile technology (interactivity, linked data, rich media) we can enrich the reading experience beyond either technology on its own.

### Design Ideas
- at its most basic level or for prototyping, QR codes could be added to pages and bring up a relevant web page with the appropriate notes / apparatus
- eventually, object recognition (perhaps Tensorflow Object Detection API) or automated OCR could be used to scan the pages without the need for a QR code or unique identifier

4/17/2018 Decided to make this repo a prototype QR-based project. Object/image recognition to scan pre-existing book pages will be incorporated in a later and separate repo

Sources: 
Gabler, H. (2010). Theorizing the Digital Scholarly Edition. Literature Compass, 7(2), 43-56.
